## Christmas edition

We looked at a bunch of things you can do with Ruby. The code is in `2012-12-18.rb`. For the twitter example to work you need to create a file `twitter_config.rb` that looks like this:

    Twitter.configure do |config|
      config.consumer_key = '***'
      config.consumer_secret = '***'
      config.oauth_token = '***'
      config.oauth_token_secret = '***'
    end

You can get the configuration values by creating an application at <https://dev.twitter.com/apps/new>and generating an access token (on the website).

We briefly looked at what gems are. You can find them on <rubygems.org> and install them by calling `gem install <gem name>` in the terminal.

We discovered a new method `gets`, which reads a string from the keyboard and returns it, i.e. you can do `answer = gets` and whatever the user typed in ends up in `answer`.

We learned that you can use backticks to run a terminal command from within Ruby, e.g. ``files = `ls` `` will list all the files in the current directory and store them as a single string in the `files` variable.

### Homework

For those who want to spend their holidays in front of a computer (I won't):

Create a program that can convert between the different grading systems of schools in different countries. Collaborate on the mailing list to figure out the systems.

Basic version: write a method like `def convert_germany_to_slovenia(mark)` that returns the mark using the Slovenian system.

Bonus points: read the mark from the keyboard, use [cowsay](https://github.com/moneydesktop/cowsay) to print the result, convert between more countries.
