## Meeting 2

This meeting was mostly a repetition of what we had done last week and the [homework](https://gist.github.com/02c354d135869b820687). What you can do with Strings, what to use Hashes and Arrays for, what is a variable etc. We also briefly looked at the [Ruby documentation](http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-1.9.3/) and how to use it.

### What's new

We started using [an editor](http://www.sublimetext.com/) and run .rb files instead of `irb`. To run a file save it, open the Terminal/Command Line. Then go to the directory where the file is using `cd <name>`. Finally type `ruby <filename>` to run the file.
Note that when you run a Ruby file the complete code in the file runs every time, not just the last line like in `irb`.

After that we started with control structures, namely the `if-else` clause. If/else allows you to run some code depending on wether a condition is true, for example:

    x = 1
    if x == 1
      print 'x is one'
    else
      print 'x os not 1'
    end

If must always end with `end` - the `else` part is optional. When comparing two values we need to use `==` instead of just `=` as that is already used for assigning a variable (e.g. `x = 1`).

### Homework

0. We still don't have a name for the group. :)

1. What is the difference between `print` and `puts`?

2. Write a program with a data structure full of books. The program then prints out whether the book "_Why's Poignant Guide To Ruby" is in the data structure.

3. Find out how to get an Array of all the keys/values of a Hash.

4. Write a program that creates a variable with an Array full of numbers. The program then prints out the largest number and whether that number is larger than 100.
Tip: there is a method on Array that gives you that number.

5. Create a String with a three line poem. Print out the poem with the words sorted alphabetically.
Tip: you will need a method called `split` that is available on any String.

6. What does `unless` do?

7. Can you come up with a project you would like to work on for the next weeks? Ideally it should be a program where you type in something and the program prints a responses (or many).

8. Sit back and relax with http://mislav.uniqpath.com/poignant-guide/book/chapter-3.html - skip everything we haven't covered yet.

Again, some of these are a bit tricky so if you can't come up with a solution ask on the mailing list or wait until the next meeting.

### Next meeting

The next meeting is next Tuesday, Nov 27 at 19:00 again.
