Today we talked about methods and blocks again.

## Methods

### Calling them

Methods have to be called explicitly. Just defining one does not do anything when you run the program, i.e.:

    def hello
      puts 'hello'
    end

Running this does not do anything. You have to add:

    hello

### Variable contexts

A metod has its own variable context. That means any variable that you define outside of the method is not available inside the method:

    x = 1
    def print_x
      puts x
    end
    print_x

This will raise an error as `x` is defined outside of the method, thus not available within `print_x`.

### Arguments

In order to use a variable in a method you have to pass it as an argument:

    x = 1
    def print_x(x)
      puts x
    end
    print_x(x)

Now it works. Note that the `x` outside the method is not the same as the argument called `x`, so you can (and probably should) give them different names:

    n = 1
    def print_x(x)
      puts x
    end
    print_x(n)

The way Ruby knows that the `n` from outside the method is supposed to become the `x` is by its position, i.e. the first argument you pass to `print_x` when calling it becomes `x` in the method.

    def print_many(x, y, z)
      ...
    end
    print_many("hello", "world", "and people")

In the above example our method takes three arguments `x`, `y` and `z`. According to their position `"hello"` becomes `x`, `"world"` becomes `y` and `"and people"` becomes `z.

You can think of a method as a sub-program that is (almost, don't we all love exceptions) completely isolated from the rest of the program. The only way to communicate with a method from the main program is by passing arguments and by reading the return value:

    def answer_to_everything(n)
      n + 41
    end
    result = answer_to_everything(1)

The last line of the method is what gets returned to the main program. You can for example assign it to a variable (`result` in the example).


## Blocks

Blocks are similar to methods. They have their own variable context as well and they (can) also take arguments (written between pipes (`|`) instead of parentheses). The difference is that blocks don't have names and that you can actually use the variables from the context surrounding the block in the block itself:

    x = 1
    [2, 3].each do |y|
      puts x + y
    end

Blocks are not defined on their own but we always define and pass them to a method at the same time (it's not the entire truth but less confusing for now :) ) like in the example above, where we call `each` and pass it the block that calls `puts x + y`. The `each` method then decides when and how often to call the code in the block and what arguments to pass. In the case of `each` the block is called for every element in the array and gets passes the current element as an argument.

This is by the way how you would define a method that takes a block:

    def call_twice(&block)
      block.call 1
      block.call 2
    end

    call_twice do |i|
      puts i
    end

Can you guess what this will print out?
