## Meeting 5

This meting was all about blocks. Blocks are basically methods without a name, meaning you can pass them arguments and they include one or more lines of code – the difference to methods is that they don't have a name and they can themselves be arguments when calling a method.

To pass a block to a method call:

    [1, 2, 3].each do |n|
      puts n
    end

The `do` .. `end` is the block. Instead of brackets we use pipes to enclose the arguments.

Here are a few examples of using blocks:

    [1, 2].each do |number|
      print number
    end

    [1, 2, 3].map do |number|
      number + 1
    end  # => [2, 3, 4]

    # print the numbers from 1 to 100
    numbers = 1..100
    numbers.each do |n|
      print n
    end

    even_numbers = numbers.select do |n|
      if n.even?
        true
      end
    end

    # print strings that are longer than 5 characters
    names = ['foobar', 'rails girls', 'blub', 'macbook']
    names.each do |name|
      if name.size > 5
        print name
      end
    end

This is how you write to a file:

    comments = ['this is confusing', 'crazy!', 'crappy!', "it's beautiful", "sh*t"]

    File.open('test.html', 'w') do |file|
      comments.each do |comment|
        file.print "<h1>#{comment}</h1>"
      end
    end

Basically when you call `File.open` it opens/creates the file "test.html" and runs the code in the block. In the block you can write stuff to the file by calling `file.print` (as many times as you want).

### Homework

#### School marks

Write a program that converts marks from a German school to the polish system and prints them out as HTML so that it looks like this:

    # marks.html:
    <h1>marks in poland</h1>
    <ul>
    <li>Boris: 2</li>
    <li>alex: 3</li>
    <li>nina: 1</li>
    </ul>

Following are the marks, this is how your program starts:

    marks = [
      ['boris', 5],
      ['alex', 3],
      ['nina', 6]
    ]

    # ...


Fill in the code so that it converts from German (1 - 6) to Polish (5 to 1) and writes out the HTML into a file.

#### Numbers

Print all even numbers from 1 to 30 in HTML (wrap each number in a `<span></span>`). The bigger the number the bigger the font. To change the font size of an element in HTML you do this: `<span style="font-size: 12px">..</span>` – 12px is pretty small, so maybe start at that and then make each span a few px larger than the previous one).

#### Methods

Take the previous task and wrap the code in two methods: `convert_marks(array)` and `write_to_html_file(marks_array)`. The first one converts an array of marks from German to Polish, the second one takes the array from the first one and writes it to a file as HTML.


#### Bonus

Add some fancyness like colors and font sizes etc. to the HTML.


**Pro tip**: use the force. If you don't have enough [midichlorians](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Midi-chlorian) in your bloodstream use the mailing list instead.
