# Meeting from 2013-06-25

## Task 1

Work on the calculator part. Make the app print out for example:

    The result of 15 + 15 is 30.

When you go to `/sum` it should display the form instead of showing an empty calculation.

## Solution 1

    get '/sum' do
      if params[:operator] == "+"
        @result = params[:one].to_f + params[:two].to_f
      end
      if params[:operator] == "-"
        @result = params[:one].to_f - params[:two].to_f
      end
      if params[:operator] == "/"
        @result = params[:one].to_f / params[:two].to_f
      end
      if params[:operator] == "*"
        @result = params[:one].to_f * params[:two].to_f
      end
      if @result
        erb :sum
      else
        erb :form
      end
    end


## Task 2

Change the `/hello` page that says _Add ?name=xyz to the URL_ to show a form to enter your name instead, so that after you enter your name is shows _Hello &lt;name&gt;_.

## Solution for Task 2

erb file:

    <% if @name %>
      <h1>Hello <%= @name %></h1>
    <% else %>
      <form action="/html" method="GET">
        <p><label>Your name: <input name="name"/></label></p>
        <p><input type="submit" value="Type your name"/></p>
        </form>
    <% end %>

app.rb:

    get '/html' do
      @name = params[:name]
      erb :hello
    end

## Homework

Create a new sinatra app consisting of a `config.ru`, `app.rb` and `views` directory. Copy all the [boilerplate code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boilerplate_code) you need to get it working.

When you first to to the app you see two links:

    Word Statistics

    Colors

When you click on `Word Statistics` you come to a form that lets you enter a long text. Instead of an `<input type="text" name="text">` as before, this time use a `<textarea name="text"></textarea>` in the form.

After you submit the form you come to another page that shows you the text again plus the number of words and the number of letters the text has.

When you click on colors you can again enter a long text into a form. After you submit the form every word of the text is displayed in a different size and color (can be random).

Every page has a back link that gets you to the start page.

### Hints

To display a start page create an entry in `app.rb` that looks something like this:

    get '/' do
      erb: home
    end

To calculate the statistics you grab the text via `params[:text]` and then you can apply the usual String methods we already know (e.g. `split`, `join`, `size`).

To display the text in colors you need to split it into words and then surround each word with some HTML, for example `<span style="font-size: 15px; color: #FF0000">word</span>`. The `map` method might come in handy here.

The colors are in hex format. If you don't want to write code to generate random color hex codes you can create a variable wit an array of colors that you copy from [somewhere else](http://www.2createawebsite.com/build/hex-colors.html#colorscheme).
